Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Answer:
In order to locate and rettieve  data it is required to have data in a structured form. Structured form of data makes
retrieval and manipulation easy.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Answer:
Following operations can be performed on different Data Structure:
     1. Searching
     2. Sorting
     3. Insertion
     4. Deletion
     5. Merging
     6. Traversing

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Answer:
     1. Compiler Design,
     2. Operating System,
     3. Database Management System,
     4. Statistical analysis package,
     5. Numerical Analysis,
     6. Graphics,
     7. Artificial Intelligence,
     8. Simulation


what is an Array?
Answer:
An array in programming is a collection of data/value which has index associated with it. An array shall contain
similar types of data, an array can be sorted or un sorted.


what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Answer:
1. Array length if fixed but arraylist is dynamic.
2. Array members are accessed using [], but ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them as
because aerialist is collection of framework in java.
3. Array can store primitive variables and objects but arraylist can store oly Objects.


what is LinkedList?
Answer:
Answer: A linked list is linear data Structure where each element is a separate object which is called node. Each node
has data and reference to the next node. Last node has reference to null.


How is an Array different from Linked List?
Answer:
1. An array element is having index number, but a node is having reference to next node.
2. In array each element is independent, does not have any connection to the other element on the other hand in
linked list each node are connected by previous node.
3. In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array,
no pointers are used like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.
4. Linked list consumed extra memory as the link location need to be saved in in the linked part of the previous
elements in case of array it is not required.


what is queue?
Answer:
It is a linear data structure where elements can be accessed  ob the basis of FIFO.


what is stack?
Answer:
Stack is linear data structure where elements can be accessed on the basis of LIFO.


what is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:
FIFO: First in first out. Example: In Queue data can be accessed by FIFO method.
LIFO: Last in first out. Example: In Stack elements can be accessed on the basis of LIFO.


what is the order of complexity?
Answer:
For input is of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(1), O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.


what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
Best case - you find it (assuming you only need to find one) on the first comparison.


what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
Assuming there are no duplicates for the expected value and it is the last one in the array - the nth comparison.


what is tree in data structure?
Answer:
A tree is a widely used abstract data a type or data structure implementing abstract data type. It is a hierarchical
tree structure, which has root value and subtrees pf children with parent node, represented as a set of linked notes.


what is graph in data structure?
Answer:
A graph is pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by link.
The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices are called edges.


What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:
1. HashMap is non-synchronized. This means if it’s used in multi thread environment then more than one thread can
access and process the HashMap simultaneously. Hashtable is synchronized. It ensures that no more than one thread can
access the Hashtable at a given moment of time.
2. HashMap allows one null key and any numbers of null values. HashTable doesn't allow null key and null values.
3. HashMap implementation LinkedHashMap maintain the insertion order and tree map sorts the mapping based on the
ascending order of keys.


What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Answer:
The major data structures used are as follows:
1. RDBMS - Array
2. Network data model - Graph
3. Hierarchical data model - Trees


How HashMap works in java?
Answer:
A HashMap element has key and value in Java, elements are stored against a key. Map Interface implemented on HashMap
in Java Collection Framework. elements manipulation is easy on the basis of key of the value.


What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Answer:
It is a class in Java API, which extends IndexOutOfBoundException. IndexOutOfBoundsException occur when an array has
been accessed with an illegal index. Index either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.


What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:
There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one
array into another array in Java.
1. Manually, 2. Arrays.copyOf() 3. System.arraycopy() 4. Object.clone()

Manually: Copy elements one by one.
Arrays.copyOf(): We can directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method.
System.arraycopy(): Using this method.
Object.clone(): We can also use clone() method to make a copy of array.


What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Answer:
1. An array element is having index number, but a node is having reference to next node.
2. In array each element is independent, does not have any connection to the other element on the other hand in
linked list each node are connected by previous node.
3. In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array,
no pointers are used like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.
4. Linked list consumed extra memory as the link location need to be saved in in the linked part of the previous
elements in case of array it is not required.


What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:
Depth-first search (DFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structure
This one starts at the root and explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking.
Breath-first search (BFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structure.
It starts at the tree roots and explores the neighbour nodes first before visiting to the next level of neighbours.


What is Recursion?
Answer:
When a method calls himself inside the method is called recursion. The method which causes recursion is called
recursive method.


What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Answer:
Linear data structure: 1. Array, 2. Stack, 3. Queue, 4. LinkedList
Non-Linear data structure: 1. Trees 2. Graphs


What is Big-(O)-notation?
Answer:
Big O notations is describes the performance or complexity of an algorithm. BY seeing this it is possible to understand
how first the algorithm is. Big od specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe
the execution time required or the space used by an algorithm.


Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Answer:
1. Bubble sort: It is a comparison algorithm. It works by repeatedly stepping through the list to be sorted, comparing
each pair of adjacent items and swapping them if they are in the wrong order. The pass through the list is repeated
until no swaps are needed, which indicates that the list is sorted. Worst case performance: O(n2) Best case performance:
O(n) Average case performance: O(n2) Worst case space complexity: O(n) total, O(1) auxiliary Bubble sort is not a
practical sorting algorithm when n is large.

2.Selection sort: It is an in-place comparison sort.Selection sort is noted for its simplicity, and also has performance
advantages over more complicated algorithms in certain situations. Worst case performance: O(n2) Best case performance:
O(n2) Average case performance: O(n2) Worst case space complexity: O(n) total, O(1) auxiliary

3.Insertion sort: It is a comparison sort in which the sorted array (or list) is built one entry at a time. It is much
less efficient on large lists than more advanced algorithms such as quicksort, heapsort, or merge sort. Worst case
performance: O(n2) Best case performance: O(n) Average case performance: O(n2) Worst case space complexity: O(n) total,
O(1) auxiliary

4. Merge sort: It is an O(n log n) comparison-based sorting algorithm. Worst case performance: O(n log n) Best case
performance: O(n log n) typical Average case performance: O(n log n) Worst case space complexity: O(n) total, O(n)
auxiliary

5.Quick sort: It is similar to merge sort in many ways. It divides the elements to be sorted into two groups, sorts
the two groups by recursive calls, and combines the two sorted groups into a single array of sorted values. The choice
of a good pivot element is critical to the efficiency of the quicksort algorithm. If we can ensure that the pivot
element is near the median of the array values, then quicksort is very efficient. on average, makes O(n log n)
comparisons to sort n items, in the worst case, it makes O(n2) comparisons


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


