Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Use of appropriate data structure enables a computer system to perform its task more efficiently,
by influencing the ability of computer to store and retrieve data from any location in its memory.
Different kind of data structures are suited to different computer applications and tasks


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
list, graph, tree, record (also called a struct or tuple), map also called a dictionary, and many more.
Sorting, to sort the items in a required order.
The most common operations performed on them are:
Data insertion.
Data update.
Data retrieve


List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design,
Operating System,
Database Management System,
Statistical analysis package,
Numerical Analysis,
Graphics,
Artificial Intelligence,
and Simulation.

what is an Array?
An array, in the context of Java, is a dynamically-created object that serves as a container to hold constant number of values of the same type. By declaring an array,
memory space is allocated for values of a particular type.
An array element that is also an array is known as a subarray

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
ArrayList is part of collection framework in Java. Therefore array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them.
Array is a fixed size data structure while ArrayList is not

what is LinkedList?
Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element is a separate object with a data part and address part.
The LinkedList class also consists of various constructors and methods like other java collections

How is an Array different from Linked List?
difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure. Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index.
While a linked list is a data structure which contains a sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element.

what is queue?
interface, java.util.Queue represents a data structure designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.
This is similar to how a queue in a supermarket works.
The Java Queue interface is a subtype of the Java Collection interface


what is stack?
Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.
The push operation adds an element at the top of the stack, and the pop operation removes an element from the top of the stack.
Java provides a Stack class which models the Stack data structure

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO)

what is the order of complexity?
Complexity measures the time taken for running an algorithm and it is commonly used to count the number of elementary operations performed by the algorithm to improve the performance.
Lets starts with simple example to understand the meaning of Time Complexity in java

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Best searching technique for searching any element in an array is Linear search for a unsorted array where no specific pattern is given.
Linear Search with complexity O(n)
Binary Search with complexity O(log n)
Search using HASH value with complexity O(1)

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Binary Search does not work for "un-Sorted" lists. For these lists just do a straight search starting from the first element; this gives a complexity of O(n).
If you were to sort the array with MergeSort or any other O(nlogn) algorithm then the complexity would be O(nlogn)
Binary Search does not work for "un-Sorted" lists. For these lists just do a straight search starting from the first element;
this gives a complexity of O(n).
If you were to sort the array with MergeSort or any other O(nlogn) algorithm then the complexity would be O(nlogn)

what is tree in data structure?
Tree is a non-linear data structure which organizes data in hierarchical structure. Root. Edge
Connecting link between any two nodes is called as EDGE.
In a tree with 'N' number of nodes there will be a maximum of 'N-1' number of edges


what is graph in data structure?
graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.
The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
It is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper synchronization code whereas Hashtable is synchronized.
It is thread-safe and can be shared with many threads.
HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Hierarchical database model.
Relational model.
Network model.
Object-oriented database model.
Entity-relationship model.
Document model.
Entity-attribute-value model.
Star schema.
While the hierarchical database model structures data as a tree of records,
with each record having one parent record and many children, the network model allows each record to have multiple parent and child records,
forming a generalized graph structure

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key.
HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map.Entry object which contains both key and value object

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
ava.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.
ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
copy elements from one array in Java e.g. you can manually copy elements by using a loop,
create a clone of the array,
use Arrays.copyOf() method or System.arrayCopy() to start copying elements from one array to another in Java

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure.
Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index.
What is DFS and BFS?
BFS stands for Breadth First Search is a vertex based technique for finding a shortest path in graph.
It uses a Queue data structure which follows first in first out. In BFS, one vertex is selected at a time when it is visited and marked then its adjacent are visited and stored in the queue.
It is slower than DFS Depth first search

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive. Many programming problems can be solved only by recursion,
and some problems that can be solved by other techniques are better solved by recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
linear data structures are Arrays, Stack, Queue and Linked List.
An arrays is a collection of data items having the same data types.
All the data elements in non linear data structure can not be traversed in single run.
Examples of non linear data structures are Trees and Graphs

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A theoretical measure of the execution of an algorithm, usually the time or memory needed, given the problem size n,
which is usually the number of items.
Informally, saying some equation f(n) = O(g(n)) means it is less than some constant multiple of g(n)

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
When the array is almost sorted, insertion sort can be preferred. When order of input is not known,
merge sort is preferred as it has worst case time complexity of nlogn and it is stable as well.
When the array is sorted, insertion and bubble sort gives complexity of n but quick sort gives complexity of n^2

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


Insert       Delete    Search    Insert    Delete    Search
Array/       stack  /queue O(1) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1) O(n)
Linked        list O(1) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1) O(n)
Doubly linked list O(1) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1) O(n)
Hash table     O(1) O(1) O(1) O(n) O(n) O(n)
Binary search tree  O(log(n)) O(log(n)) O(log(n)) O(n) O(n) O(n)

